# AUTOMATIC-LEARNING-TO-SUPPORT-SYSTEMATIC-LITERATURE-REVIEW
Project aimed at completing the master's course in Computer Engineering and Telecommunications.

Due to the great demand for scientific publications, researchers find it hard to follow discoveries within the same domain. Synthesizing the investigation, either informally or through systematic reviews, it becomes increasingly resource-intensive as searches retrieve more potentially relevant information for reviewers to assess the relevance of the issue and the investigation. With the need to start medical research in the field of genetics, a small team of researchers used a series of keywords in the PubMed search engine. That returned a chain of articles, making the screening process more difficult, and not all of these texts will be relevant for the literature review, due to the quantity and in the short term it will not be possible for the reviewers to read them all in-depth. With the task of screening 17,132 articles, the reviewers use the “relevant” or “not relevant” labels to classify the information in the title and abstract fields, thus easing the burden of reading the entire content. With a very high number of texts, reviewers were able to screen 327 articles, and in this process, they obtained more studies classified as "not relevant" than "relevant", forming an unbalanced corpus. Focusing on this problem a classifier is proposed that will support researchers in sorting articles, this will be trained in a supervised manner with articles that have gone through manual sorting, with a small set of training that serves to train the classifier. To solve the imbalance problem, the oversampling technique is applied, showing to be very useful when there is little information contained in the corpus. This resampling procedure allows a better approach to articles with text processing techniques such as text mining, enabling the use of another strategy called term frequency – inverse document frequency (TF-IDF). The methodology used for the qualification of articles is the supervised binary classification, using the support vector machine (SVM) classifier, which proved to be effective in conjunction with the probabilistic method latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), a model for discovering thematic structures hidden in collections of texts, where the support vector machine might not be more accurate. This is intended to demonstrate that the use of machine learning methods is effective in learning by assisting investigations with systematic review.

